>> Brian Holt: So this is just kind of a
brief overview on some helper things that
you can do with React just to kind
of make it easier to work with.
So one of them is, we're using vite.
So vite will take care of NODE_ENV for
you automatically.
But NODE_ENV,
if you're not familiar with it,
it's just basically telling the tools
that you're working with is,
am I in development mode,
or am I in production mode?
And usually it's assumed that
you're in production mode, and
then you only set it to development mode
when you're actually doing dev work.
This used to be a thing that you
had to set it explicitly, and
that's why I still mention it here.
So, if you're doing Webpack,
you might still have to set it
explicitly of I'm in dev mode right now.
This is important to React because
React has a lot of helpers and
better error messages and all that
kind of stuff when you're in dev mode.
But the actual executable of React is
a lot slower and it's four times bigger.
Or at least that's what it was, I haven't
checked recently how big it is, but
it was quite big.
So if you're using Vite, if you're following along with me,
if you're using Next,
if you're using Remix, they all set
NODE_ENV for you automatically.
If you're using something
like Webpack directly,
you might have to set it yourself.
>> Brian Holt: One of the reasons I bring
this up is that make sure this gets set to
production, when you actually do go out
to production, that becomes important.
Famously Slack shipped, React in
dev mode for a very, very long time and
they actually saw a massive
increase in performance in Slack.
Because all they had to do was switch
NODE_ENV to production, right?
Which is a very dumb reason to waste a lot
of people's time and resources, right?
So that's one. Strict mode,
let's go do that, right now.
>> Brian Holt: So strict mode is a kind
of react mode you can set things in.
So we're just gonna go to app.jsx,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna say at the top
import StrictMode
from React, and we're just gonna wrap
our entire app in it. Strict mode.
>> Brian Holt: So what is strict mode?
It's just like an extra set of checks that
React will do things for you normally.
But in strict mode it'll say hey,
you're executing in strict mode,
I'm not going to let you do this.
Usually what it is, is if you're using
things that are about to be removed
from React, it'll give you a big warning.
It's like, hey,
this has been warned that this is gonna be
removed from a future version of React.
Am not going to let you use this
because you're in strict mode.
So they do that so
that people know in advance that
stuff's gonna be removed from React.
So that's what strict mode is.
Yeah, continually to double renders
your components, just to
make sure that all the effects
are run twice, right?
It can catch subtle bugs,
of sometimes you have effects that
are doing something one time, and
working differently another time, that's
kind of what they're supposed to catch.
If you're asking me, how many times
has that caught something for me?
The answer is not really, cuz once
you're in the mindset of how effects and
state is supposed to work, it's pretty
rare that you would get outside of that.
Last thing here,
we're going to install the DevTools.
So I have a link down here for you, this
should take you to the React docs, and
they have dev tools available for
Chrome, Firefox, and Edge.
They used to have it for Safari, but
I guess no one uses Safari,
so they took it away.
No one uses Firefox, but
I'm happy they still maintain that one.
So yeah, let me go show you Firefox.
So you should just be able to click in
here and say add, I've already installed
it so mine's gonna stay there,
it's the same thing with Chrome.
And then what's cool about this,
>> Brian Holt: Let
me make my devtools a little bit smaller.
You should see down here at the end,
components and profiler.
>> Brian Holt: So you get two little
things that you get added by the React dev
tools.
And so let's just go look at Components.
You can see here I have an App component,
Order, Pizza, this is kind of
the expected order of components
that we have inside of our app here.
If I click on Order,
I can also see all the hooks that happen,
which is pretty cool, right?
I can see everything coming in from,
these are the pizza types, right?
You can see I have a pepperoni, medium.
Here's something kind of fun you can do,
you can actually edit this directly.
So if I hit this to I think it's something
like that, I break it, that's cool.
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
All right, so notice,
this is barbecue chicken.
I can actually edit this
directly to be pepperoni.
And notice when I hit Enter,
this is gonna become pepperoni, right?
>> Brian Holt: Sometimes
that can be useful, right?
I can edit this to be small.
It can be useful for
debugging just to see,
if I change this to be this, what happens?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah again, here, you can
see all the props that come into this one.
It does let you edit props, that used
to not be true, how cool is that?
>> Brian Holt: So that's that.
I'll show you one other trick
that I find pretty useful.
All right, so, let's say I wanna
investigate this radio buttons,
I can click Inspect here, right?
So I click Inspect.
Obviously that takes me into
the inspector, it doesn't take me
into the React dev tools, but
if I just go over to the React dev tools.
>> Brian Holt: Usually it'll take you
directly to that that component, but
it's probably because it's in the
>> Brian Holt: Larger component.
Yeah, this time it did, okay so that time
it took me over to the pizza, right?
Right now we only have three components.
By the end of this course, we'll probably
have 50-ish, just because it'll introduce
things like the router that
have a lot of layers to it.
>> Brian Holt: That can
be super useful for
finding a component
deeply buried in a tree.
The last thing that I'll show you is that
we have that and now I can hit $ + R.
>> Brian Holt: This is the component that
I have selected in the React components,
right?
So you can see this is
actually the pepperoni pizza,
it's the last thing that I selected
in the component tree here.
Which is more of a party trick than
it is useful to be honest with you.
I don't find myself wanting
to programmatically interact
with it very much, but
it is there, which is pretty cool.
This is totally unrelated to React, but
I don't know if you click on this and
you hit $ + 0.
You'll get the last thing you
selected in the inspector,
I find myself doing that quite a bit more.
>> Brian Holt: So I introduce those now to
just so that for the rest of the course,
if you have any questions or concerns,
you can reference them, kind of as we go.
There is the profiler as well,
we're gonna talk less about that,
but let's say if I just start recording
and do a bunch of stuff here.
Sorry, don't do that right now.
>> Brian Holt: All right so
blah blah and I click Stop.
>> Brian Holt: Our flame graph
isn't super interesting right now,
neither is the ranked view.
But this is gonna show you kind of the
performance profile with the flame graph.
If you have a big React app, and
you wanna see what is going slow and
what's broken down, this is designed to
help you with that, specific to React.
>> Brian Holt: These are kinda cool,
I hadn't seen these before.
So the way that React works
is it has commits, right?
So they're basically packets
of things that have changed.
You can see what caused the update,
how long it took, what the priority was.
Cuz you can have deferred and
immediate updates.
There's all sorts of fun stuff you can do.
We're not talking about performance so
much in this particular course.
We might touch on that
more in intermediate or
maybe in a different
React performance course.
>> Brian Holt: One thing,
just kind of as a general note with React,
it's generally fast enough.
And when I say that,
you kind of get to write React and
be fairly naive in terms of not
worrying about performance,
not worrying about commits or
updates or anything like that.
My advice to you is just continue writing
React that way for the most part.
Only introduce the performance
enhancements when you have a problem.
So, stated differently
solve problems you have,
don't try to anticipate
problems that you might have,
because you usually are wrong about
what the problems you're about to have.
And while the performance enhancements for
React work,
they work great, they make the code
harder to read and harder to debug.
And that's why I say don't do the performance
enhancements until you need them,
because it becomes harder
to work with your code.